Release notes v1.0.0 (#4732)
grafana/k6: release notes/v1.0.0.md

k6 `v1.0.0` is here 🎉!

> After 9 years, 9k+ commits and 58 releases from the first commit in 2015, we're excited to announce that we're going to leave behind the `v0.x` series. Starting from now k6 aligns with the industry standard of following the semantic versioning scheme and will release this and future versions by following its new stability policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After 9 years, over 9,000 commits, and 58 releases since our first commit in 2016, we are excited to announce the end of the `v0.x` series. Starting with this release, k6 will align with the industry-standard semantic versioning scheme. From now on, we will release this and future versions following our new stability policy.
```

ERRO[0001] test run was marked as failed
k6 exited with status: 110
```

## UX improvements and enhancements

- [#4698](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4698) Displays threshold values even when are not configured in `summaryTrendStats` option.
- [#4699](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4699) Drops the link of the legacy k6 website from the user agent.

## Bug fixes

- [#4717](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4717) Safeguards against `pressedKeys` being updated concurrently in browser module. Also empty struct instead of a bool for a set in browser module.
- [#4665](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4665) Prevents race condition between `Ended` & `Interrupted` execution states.
- [#4677](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4677) Makes `secretsource` also redact `float32` and `float64` values.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

- [#4675](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4675), [#4676](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4676), [#4678](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4678) Move several packages to `internal` as preparations for v1.0.0 stabilization
- [#4686](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4686) Drops the redundant `NO_COLOR` detection.

> - [undefined] Uses native JavaScript objects in browser module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#4709](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4709) Uses native JavaScript objects in browser module.
```

k6 `v1.0.0` is here 🎉!

After 9 years, 9k+ commits and 58 releases from the first commit in 2015, we're excited to announce that we're going to leave behind the `v0.x` series. Starting from now k6 aligns with the industry standard of following the semantic versioning scheme and will release this and future versions by following its new stability policy.

This release includes:

- Native support for extensions in the Cloud
- New test failure control with `execution.test.fail`
- Documentation for the stability guarantees

> ## New features

Reviewer 2: Maybe you already have this noted down else ehere, but i thought it was worth noting in a comment here that we should link to the stability guarantee document that will be merged in after the release. After reading the intro it felt like that should be either part of the intro or the first item in the New features section.

Reviewer 3: Once we merge the [docs PR](https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/1880) for it, the link should be:

https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/reference/versioning-and-stability-guarantees

### Native support for extensions in the Cloud [#4670](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4671)

The new Binary provisioning feature automatically requests and uses custom k6 binaries with the required extensions for your tests. This allows you to run scripts that use extensions without manually rebuilding k6 as it was in the past by depending on tools like `xk6`. The system caches binaries locally for efficiency, and any additional runs with the same dependencies will use the same binary and will run faster.

> Binary provisioning is available for all k6 Cloud users (free and paid plans), and it's enabled by opt-in with the feature flag `K6_BINARY_PROVISIONING=true`.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth detailing or linking to a doc on how to set this env var up. I presume it's something the customer can do in their own GCk6 instance?

Reviewer 3: This is the doc we currently have for the feature: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/testing/k6/author-run/use-k6-extensions/.

I need to update it to include the feature flag.

Reviewer 3: I see @pablochacin made a docs PR [here](https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/pull/1937/files), I just missed reviewing it. :( 

I'm going to try to do that first thing tomorrow. 🙇

    http_req_failed.........................................................: 0.00%  0 out of 10
    http_reqs...............................................................: 10     5.763858/s

    EXECUTION
    iteration_duration......................................................: avg=173.46ms min=128.07ms med=129.43ms max=569.82ms p(90)=174.89ms p(95)=372.36ms
    iterations..............................................................: 10     5.763858/s
    vus.....................................................................: 1      min=1       max=1
    vus_max.................................................................: 1      min=1       max=1

    NETWORK
    data_received...........................................................: 32 kB  19 kB/s
    data_sent...............................................................: 1.0 kB 601 B/s

running (00m01.7s), 0/1 VUs, 10 complete and 0 interrupted iterations
default ✓ [======================================] 1 VUs  00m01.7s/10m0s  10/10 shared iters
ERRO[0001] test run was marked as failed
k6 exited with status: 110
```

## UX improvements and enhancements

> - [#4698](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4698) Displays threshold values even when are not configured in `summaryTrendStats` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [#4698](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4698) Displays threshold values even when they are not configured in `summaryTrendStats` option.
```

    iterations..............................................................: 10     5.763858/s
    vus.....................................................................: 1      min=1       max=1
    vus_max.................................................................: 1      min=1       max=1

    NETWORK
    data_received...........................................................: 32 kB  19 kB/s
    data_sent...............................................................: 1.0 kB 601 B/s

running (00m01.7s), 0/1 VUs, 10 complete and 0 interrupted iterations
default ✓ [======================================] 1 VUs  00m01.7s/10m0s  10/10 shared iters
ERRO[0001] test run was marked as failed
k6 exited with status: 110
```

</details>

## UX improvements and enhancements

- [#4698](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4698) Displays threshold values even when are not configured in `summaryTrendStats` option.
- [#4699](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4699) Drops the link of the legacy k6 website from the user agent.

## Bug fixes

> - [#4717](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4717) Safeguards against `pressedKeys` being updated concurrently in browser module. Also empty struct instead of a bool for a set in browser module.

Reviewer: I don't think the last sentence adds anything useful to the fix title. It's an implementation detail.

```suggestion
- [#4717](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4717) Safeguards against `pressedKeys` being updated concurrently in browser module.
```

k6 `v1.0.0` is here 🎉!

After 9 years, 9k+ commits and 58 releases from the first commit in 2015, we're excited to announce that we're going to leave behind the `v0.x` series. Starting from now k6 aligns with the industry standard of following the semantic versioning scheme and will release this and future versions by following its new stability policy.

This release includes:

- Native support for extensions in the Cloud
- New test failure control with `execution.test.fail`
- Documentation for the stability guarantees

## New features

> ### Native support for extensions in the Cloud [#4670](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4671)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Native support for extensions in Grafana Cloud [#4670](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4671)
```

> The new Binary provisioning feature automatically requests and uses custom k6 binaries with the required extensions for your tests. This allows you to run scripts that use extensions without manually rebuilding k6 as it was in the past by depending on tools like `xk6`. The system caches binaries locally for efficiency, and any additional runs with the same dependencies will use the same binary and will run faster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new binary provisioning feature automatically requests and uses custom k6 binaries with the required extensions for your tests. This allows you to run scripts that use extensions without manually rebuilding k6 as it was in the past, by depending on tools like `xk6`. The system caches binaries locally for efficiency, and any additional runs with the same dependencies will use the same binary and will run faster.
```

> Binary provisioning is available for all k6 Cloud users (free and paid plans), and it's enabled by opt-in with the feature flag `K6_BINARY_PROVISIONING=true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Binary provisioning is available for all Grafana Cloud k6 users (free and paid plans), and it's enabled by opt-in with the feature flag `K6_BINARY_PROVISIONING=true`.
```

> Binary provisioning is a limited set of extensions that are supported, and it's not available for the `k6 run` command that might be added in the future. However, local development is supported with the `k6 cloud --local-execution` command if a cloud token is provided by the canonical login methods.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Binary provisioning supports a limited set of extensions, and it's not available via the `k6 run` command. However, local development is supported with the `k6 cloud --local-execution` command if a Grafana Cloud token is provided via the login methods.
```

> ### Test failure control with `execution.test.fail` [#4672](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4672)

Reviewer 3: I think we're missing a docs update for this.
